# Covid-19-prediction-perspective-BD
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a contagious disease caused by a novel coronavirus. Now it is called severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV2; formerly called 2019-nCoV), which was ﬁrst identiﬁed in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. It was initially reported to the WHO on December 31, 2019. On January 30, 2020, the WHO declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global health emergency which has become a global pandemic according to the declaration of the WHO on March 11, 2020. The number of infected patients around the world is increasing daily at an alarming exponential growth rate. In Bangladesh, infected patients were ﬁrst found on March 08, 2020. The number is increasing day by day. Some Corona viruses can be transmitted from one person to another person. But it usually happens after close contact with an infected patient. It has some common signs like respiratory symptoms, cough, fever, different types of breathing difﬁculties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and the ultimate outcome is death. Most of the infected people experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without requiring any type of special treatment. Older people and those having other medical problems like cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, diabetes and cancer are more likely to develop serious illness.
Situation data and insight regarding those data is always important in various sectors also in that pandemic case. From the situation data analysis on COVID-19, we can decide the future steps and take decisions like, which area to put under strict lockdown, which area is less risky or which area has a sudden growth of infected cases, how much cautions we should take. A comprehensive dataset for this analysis and possible future usage in the ﬁeld of artiﬁcial intelligence is prepared here which can also predict infected cases, death cases and recovery cases. Besides, here we have used ML techniques like FB prophet, ARIMA, SARIMAX and deep learning technique LSTM to predict each of these cases and also compared between them.
This research attempts to predict the infected, death and recovery cases for Covid-19 using ML techniques FB Prophet, ARIMA, SARIMAX, deep learning technique LSTM and compare between them to ﬁnd out the best model for prediction. For case ’Detected’ and ’Recovery’, LSTM performs better and for case ’Death’, SARIMAX performs better. 
